# CCNP Wireless Concepts

## RF Spectrum
* Radio Wave - EMF that radiates from a transmitter 
* Hertz - how often a wave occurs per second
* Frequency - the amount of time a wave takes to travel one cycle. depends on the cycle. shorter the wave, the higher the frequency. 
- insert chart here
* wavelength - physical distance from one point of a waves cycle to the same point in the next cycle aka the physical distance that a wave covers in one cycle. represented with lamba symbol - add symbol here later
* current - changes of electron flow in the antenna, 

* Amplitude - strength of a signal, distance between the highest and lowest crests of the cycle - add image here represented with gamma symbol. representitive of the amount of energy that is injected in one cycle(more energy = higher amplitude) represented with gamma symbol
* 

* Amplification - Increase of the amplitude of a wave, can be active or passive
Passive by focusing energy, active by increasing applied power. 

* Attenuation - Decrease in amplification

## Free Path Loss
* Attentuation of a signal between a sender and a receiver, often result of distance
5ghz experiences the most free path loss


## RSSI and SNR
### Received Signal Strength Indicator (AKA signal value)
basically how much power is received
usually expressed in decibels referenced to 1milliwatt. (dbm) Is hard to calculate, because receiver does not know how much power was originally sent. 
Often expressed as a grade value. 0 (no signal or no reference) to 255. For Cisco, -67dBm or higher would be a good RSSI

### Noise floor
"Spectrum background/ambient noise" Can be caused by other wireless devices. Measured in decibels. typically 0 to -120. a noise floor of -95dBm is typical


### Signal to Noise Ration (SNR)
ranges 0 to 120, with the closer to 120 being better. 
is a comparison between the values of RSSI and Noise Floor 
subtract noise from RSSI
example: 
you have a noise floor of -50, and an RSSI value of -90
-50 - (-90) = -50 + 90 = 40

anything above 20 is good. 
Currently, SINR is becoming more and more common (Signal to Interface + noise ratio)
Takes into account noise floor, strength of an interface and RSSI
you need an SINR of 25 or better to support VoWLAN applications


### Watts and Decibels
Watts, measure of energy sent, per second
1w = 1j (joule) of energy per second
1 joule = amount of energy that is generated by a force of 1 newton moving 1 meter in one direction (newton = force that is required to accelarate 1 kilogram at a rate of 1 meter per second squared) 
watt or miliwatt expresses power consumption

Db (Decibels) is a sound level
used to compare powers:
the electric power of a transmitter, and the electromagnetic power of an antenna. 
(Use the rule of 3 and 10)
+3db = power times 2
-3db = power divided by 2
+10db = power times 10
-10db = power divided by 10

 
 


